Hello Friends, this series of blog posts will purely focus on Buffer Overflows. When I started my journey in Infosec, this one topic fascinated me as much as it frightened me. When I read some of the blogs related to Buffer Overflows, it really seemed as some High-level gibber jabber containing C code, Assembly and some black terminals (Yeah I am talking about GDB). Over the period of time and preparing for OSCP, I started to learn about Buffer Overflows in detail referring to the endless materials on Web scattered over different planets. So, I will try to explain Buffer Overflow in depth and detail so everyone reading this blog can understand what actually a Buffer Overflow is.

In this blog, we will understand the basic fundamentals behind the Buffer Overflow vulnerability. Buffer Overflow is a memory corruption attack which involves memory, stack, buffers to name a few. We will go through each of this and understand why really Buffer Overflows takes place in the first place. We will focus on 32-bit architecture.

A little heads up: This blog is going to be a lengthy one because to understand the concepts of Buffer Overflow, we have to understand the process memory, stack, stack operations, assembly language and how to use a debugger. I will try to explain as much as I can. So I strongly suggest to stick till the end and it will surely clear your concepts. Also, from the next blog I will try to keep it short :p :p

So lets get started….
Before getting to stack and buffers, it is really important to understand the Process Memory Organization. Process Memory is the main playground where it all happens. In theory, the Process memory where the program/process resides is quite a complex place. We will see the basic part which we need for Buffer Overflow. It consists of three main regions: Text, Data and Stack.

